I do not run make you
I can only make the justice.
I have been heard to say in this room and have been morted in the press
to the effect that if Senator McCarthy takes the stand out of the next weapon after Mr. Stephen
I am perfectly confident that the minor characters will move on at off the stage with amazing swiftness
Take for example the story of Fort Bakes
General Lyon can tell us I should think in 20 minutes how many passes Mr. Shine had
and how many telephone calls he made and things of that sort
they cannot be seriously contested as I view it
I would say this but if the hearings take the course that I suggest
and the I go back to the top of the page I suggest that the senator be called next to the
the beauty shortening the hearings
First the secretary and then the senator
I would either be content about the case rest on those two witnesses
although that would give us a somewhat of a predated hearing
or at most we wish to call but too long
the names of the two more would seem to be a minimum armors call and call
Now lay I review last evening I hope within the limit to part eight
gentlemen may speak in respect to an executive session
there was as every senator knows they both
they are in fire Mr. Chairman if I am a liberty to state that vote
the vote is written to the press all those who are coming here
are reporting to the press that you are not an associate
thank you that vote was the council conferred with a view to inventing some formula that was short from the hearings
Mr. Jenkins will inform you I am sure the tired though I was
I saw my conference last night and Mr. Jenkins said I think I was tired as you
let's try it in the morning we met this morning at 915 as two
I would like to think honorable trial lawyers meet certainly honor on his side
and we conferred we were unable to embed a magic formula for shortening the hearings
and I am confident that Mr. Jenkins or reported to the committee in my absence
I still stand on my proposition that if the testimony of Mr. Stevens is concluded
and Benadry McCarthy is called next that it was greatly short from the hearing
my good friend Mr. Jenkins does not share my optimism
15 does not share my optimism I have been forced to say that I think the American
people will demand and should have the long hard foe
I began in this case by saying I wanted all facts presented
consideration over the night has left me more firmly than ever to feel that must be done no matter how much time is required
and so Mr. Wells stands for the two propositions he has always stood for
first that it will shortly hearings of the founder is called next and Mr. Jenkins I
regret the fact that he does not agree secondly first last and always we must fall the long furl
keep the record entirely clear so we all understand each other Mr. Wells
I take it that you do with all of that part of your suggestion on page 1570 where you said
you would be content to let the matter rest with the two of you
Mr. Chairman you can only read you can only read the whole state of three paragraphs to make sense out of it
and I think it's quite fair from the whole paragraph that I was continually suggesting that the way to
shortly hearings is to call the senator next
I still think there will not be so many witnesses if he is next
but I can only guess about the future
Mr. Chairman if we go back to Mr. Wells's language and I trust I do not do violence to the context
there was an alternative proposition made on page 1370 of the hearing by Mr. Wells
he said in effect I would either be content to let the case rest on these two witnesses
or at most we would wish to call but to more
now it seems to me that that proposition was put in the alternative
and I simply assume Mr. Chairman that that proposition was presented for whatever action the committee might
take and it was in pursuance of that suggestion that I thought it wise to convene counsel
and all the principles around the table in the hole that some
a timidable arrangement might be controlled and I want to say in behalf of the senator from which comes
that he sat in on the hearing he sat in on that meeting last night and likewise this morning
and I thought he approached it in pretty good faith
and so this has been a reasonable effort I think to sort of focalize the testimony
and it does occur to me Mr. Chairman after all the testimony we've had from Secretary Stevens
that if the senator from which comes and does to meet himself for direct and cross examination
and that we forget about the hands-on charges and let them be dropped for the moment
or which is all after all that the committee can require that we could expedite the hearings
and probably conclude these open sessions before the week runs out.
Chairman, I think the word from the perhaps proper
we are not in an ordinary lawsuit here in respect of which counsel
and we don't find counsel in the position in which they are ordinary
or narrowly spam. I don't care when I'm in position. I just have that too.
I think my position is quite clear that I want all the facts to be balanced.
Senator Gertchenward has made me know and if I were in the position
to make a bargain on behalf of the Army or the American people
I would say that wealth would not be just condemned
if we could have done it Secretary Stevens and then have the senator
and Mr. Cole and Mr. Car. That would certainly materially shorten the trial
and I personally would be content if we have those such witnesses
that automatically have to be called to check points in their testimony as for examples.
If I may put an example, suppose one of those witnesses said that we had a rainy day on a certain state
and it seemed very material to show it was a fair day I'd like to be able to call the weatherman.
To show what Erin's fireman said, well, she's sure now submitting another possibility
so that we have it firmly in mind and you suggest as a new alternative now that perhaps
we conclude her visit to Stevens and then call the senator McCarthy, Mr. Cole and Mr. Car and Quick
but he proposed about the credits to you all forget about him when he mentioned him.
I don't care. Certainly you will be greatly to the advantage of the McCarthy side of the case
to give them three witnesses to my one which I am content to do but let me make this clear, Mr. Chairman.
I do not fancy myself in any position to bargain about this hearing.
I can only make my guess that Mr. Jason's point is much more important than mine and is the last analysis.
It must be a committee vote if there is a difference of opinions.
And I would like to add for my observation of this case I should think a committee vote
that was too close to numbers was not leave the American people happy.
The chair suggests that all of the committee votes up to now have been unanimous.
I haven't had hope to get in that way.
We can't be sure but we certainly hope to send to him that Chairman Mr. Senator Mr. Will.
I hope I do not test this on proprietary if I recur to the meeting we had last night in room 5357.
I came away with a sixth impression that is Secretary Stevens concluded and Senator McCarthy then to the stand
that would be agreeable to you. I thought everybody had that impression before we get through tennis a matter of fact.
I thought the senator from Wisconsin had more or less agreed in formally of course there was no vote taken.
At all this was discussion that ran on until 7 o'clock but he finally in the air on the thing I want to be corrected and then too.
I perhaps I'm not at liberty to say it but I thought that was the gist of the proposition that you had outlined to counsel for the committee.
I deserve to the trouble with that is that when Mr. Jenkins and I got together this morning to talk over what had happened it was agreeable neither to him nor to me that the hearings should take that course and I apprehend it would not be agreeable to several members of the committee.
Well Mr. Welch I can only say this I have no right to inquire as to why there was a change of heart because that is not before it is present time.
But if there was a change of heart but it does appear to me that it is still in comfort on counsel and on the principle of this committee or to undertake to expediting hearings.
And to contend to themselves with the principles and wind up this at all possible this week.
Chair Rick Summit at the end of the table addressing him that show they missed you a dry and a Sunday McCarthy or was I an error?
Mr. Chairman I have very questions may seem unusual but it's very important.
Secretary Steven has much of a big hearing I think he should make it clear whether Mr. Welch speaks for him for this reason.
If I may have a share of the tension.
I think that the Mr. Steven should make it clear whether Mr. Welch speaks for him for this reason that one of the charges you know.
May the interest of the Mr. Adam of us they tried to instigate these hearings to call off investigation and come into a tracian.
Now it appears Mr. Welch has Welch on a agreement you may add to which would call a couple of hearings down so we can get back to our important work.
So we find this morning the parents of the people who instigate these hearings are trying to prolong them.
I think Mr. Steven should make it clear in the record whether or not Mr. Welch speaks for him.
I think Mr. Steven said may just clear earlier if he would challenge us any time he has this year Welch has been counseled and the chair was still on the stand.
And unless Secretary Steven did any time to say I want to be heard in my own mayhem.
The only thing that I have to say on that Mr. Chairman is that I think that every back from every witness that bears on getting the material necessary for this committee to make a determination should be brought out one way or another.
So may the chair say his position now as he did because the press conference would follow the executive meeting and which I alluded my discussion to what to place in the executive meeting to reporting on the resolution which is unanimously passed.
But I certainly confront three alternatives as the chair sees.
I in these hearings one institute proceed with the slow processes of adjudication in which we are now engaged.
The chair would like to say that as the closed session he asked counsel for all parties they were all there yesterday.
Whether they job that there were any rule changes that could be made in equity to all parties concerned that would expedite the hearings.
No rule changes were recommended just we realize the process of adjudication is slow and laborious.
And the way of our theory may require two weeks or three weeks alone but if that is the process to follow the facts I think the facts ultimately can be secured in that direction.
It's a little disturbing to find so many of the newspapers so many of the people is urging us to use the process of adjudication.
Now beating us over the head however because we're doing it and because it takes time to do the thing honestly and hurt.
I think I speak for the full committee what I say if we continue with the processes of adjudication we are not going to be standing in justice.
Because this paper people now say we wish it hadn't been started although we started primarily in conformity with our recommendation.
The second procedure would be the process of adjudication the committee can walk out nobody out of the committee has suggested that none of the counsel of any of the parties have suggested that I'm sure that they just found a vote for CIGI would not be bothered.
The third is the process of arbitration we tried if the suggestion that Senator Jackson made developing out a Mr. Wilson statement on C-1370 of the record.
It brings together all of the parties for a process of arbitration.
You see whether we could narrow the field reduce the number of witnesses or limited adjudication as an alternative to Secretary Steven from Senator McCartney.
Regardless of what may have been felt may have been understood yesterday no other motion was made.
If you go around the room several times to find out whether that would expedite the hearing and security definition committed to Senator McCartney's if that proceeding would follow.
He would dismiss as far as he was concerned Secretary Steven's this morning and assume the stand himself.
It appears that that process of arbitration has not worked out that respectfully because it is quite obvious that at least some of the parties to the discussion now feel that they would not like to follow.
We have consequently tried three methods that have been suggested before expediting the hearing.
The first is to rule out the press and they have a star chain recession.
It's been recommended we do it the way the Oppenheim case has been tried.
We can seal the facts from the public till it is over and then possibly reveal them or not.
We feel as a legislating body it's proper that the public know what is going on and whether or not the Oppenheim case ultimately gives its report to the public as they find it or releases all of the facts as it probably will.
That is not the procedure we can follow at this stage of the game.
The second suggestion made from the outside was that we admit the press for who are the photographers and television as the chair said yesterday.
The police that both the press and the photographers with a few exceptions when they bother when they shouldn't and television had then a remarkably fine job of covering the here.
It has been done with fairness without much passion without much prejudice.
The chair believes the press has a good influence on television.
The chair believes television has a good influence on the press because people having seen and heard a hearing want to read of course what they saw and what they heard.
Now we have quite arbitration and it has apparently failed and so as far as the chair is concerned I think having put our hand in the floor we will have to go through the bitter end.
But I just the fist discussion has been said so people know we did try to shorten the hearing.
We tried every honorable way. We were few who suggested trying any dishonorable way or anyway we did not bear to the very least distance.
And to make all of you address the chair I'm sorry to take them so long.
That's the chairman. I only want to make a brief comment.
We here on the Democratic side are called in a kind of a cost fire as well.
And it is not our purpose to be contentious or to do anything to obstruct the processes of justice and speeding up the hearing to a conclusion.
In view of what has been said about the executive meeting last night I may say that the only agreement that was reached was confirmed by a vote.
Our great that was radio discussion.
What the statement that the committee gave serious consideration to limiting these hearing to only two principles.
Secondary Stevens Senator McCarthy does not apply to all of the committee.
I stated it at that time in the executive session that in my judgment all principles to this controversy should be heard should be required to take the witness band and testify under all.
Of course these charges are serious. They're not just related to whether a private in the army got some passes will kept all the KP of whether he drank champagne and start to the New York.
But the charges and the counter charges that have been made and are still before this committee strike out the integrity of the administration of the United States Army also have the integrity of the standing committee of the United States.
Gentlemen in my opinion you just can't what these charges all and at the same time do our duty.
I feel that at least the principle of this controversy should be heard.
I hope we can expedite the hearings. This is not a pleasant pass for us. It's a decent real will pass.
But the paths of duty are not always pleasant. We're not responsible for these charges.
They are those friends who are and they are principles to this conversation.
And if these charges are unfounded they go to the damaging of character and reputation of high public officials.
They should be cleared up. That's the time I say to you again that the democations of this committee are here to be helpful and they'll help you expedite the hearings.
And I may say that since there's his own television no radio and before the public in open hearings it will not be difficult for the public to detect who is guilty of deletored tactics and who is undertaking to obstruct the hearings.
I say that the chairman is the four of them. I will strain myself from asking any questions except those that are directly relevant and necessary to develop the truth and to reveal that with this fall.
I think we're compelled to go over the hearings.
Mr. Chairman yesterday after the public hearing we had an executive hearing.
That's that hearing we discussed the possibility of limiting these open hearings to two witnesses.
I was opposed to that at the beginning of the hearing yesterday. I was opposed to it at the end of the hearing and I'm opposed to it this morning.
Last evening the statement was made on the radio which I confirmed with the press that one of the members of the committee had stated that serious consideration was being given to having only two witnesses.
And then terminating the hearings. I immediately called my senior colleague Santa McClullen and we agreed that a statement should be put out providing with the gift of Senator Jackson.
Senator Jackson was not available but we knew how he felt and therefore we issued a statement that serious consideration had not been given to having two witnesses only by the Democratic members of this committee.
Now Mr. Chairman it's my opinion that these hearings should never have been started but in as much as they have been started I think we owe it to the American people that they go to the end so that people will know the truth.
There's been considerable writing down of the importance of these hearings from the standpoint of those facts with my senior colleague has so recently brought up champagne and chews.
In my opinion something far deeper is now before the American people in these hearings and that is the relationship to proper relationship between the legislative branch of the government and the executive branch.
I know a little bit about this side of it and more about the other.
There have been statements that the hearing is disheartening to the people. There have been statements that they are disgusted to the American people with these hearings.
Well many times something that is disgusting or disheartening. Nevertheless has to be done so that we have good.
From the caucus building and building and watching this, the issue has been bringing a special coverage of a conventional hearing involving Senator Joseph Armacardi's dispute with high army officials.
The hearings are being conducted before the Senate's permanent subcommittee on investigations with Senator Carly, Montefsauce, Dakota, presiding as the temporary chairman.
This is the start of today's session of the committee.
Or not disheartening for discussing the American people. The American people want them to go on.
Now just prior to the start of the hearings I made two points only to the people I represent in Missouri.
And that was that I intended with all my heart to see the hearings were conducted in a goldfish bowl so that the people knew what were the facts.
And I have consistently opposed any talk of any executive hearing. The second point made was that there should be no witness who had an advantage or a disadvantaged, who were any unaware.
That everybody should appear equal in these hearings in an effort to obtain the truth.
Mr. Chairman, that is the way I felt when the hearing started and that is the way I feel now.
Does it matter? Is it the morning floor testimonials?
I would like to add more.
Then just concerning to me when the world is on fire to see an uncertain conference such as the Geneva conference pushed off on the back pages of our papers.
Face the second fast news on our television news. Over this counterfeit.
I do believe that the public is entitled to the commission has the full facts and the case.
However, it's difficult for me to envision all the testimony of Mr. Adams or any others that my people are presented by the Army.
We will in any material sense add anything new to the testimony that's been given by Secretary of Army Mr. Stacey.
It's also difficult to read a one-trick on.
I'll see the testimony of Mr. Cole or Mr. Car.
Can add anything to what Sunday McCarthy might give when he is the one for the Smiths.
Therefore, I personally believe that Secretary of the State represents the energy of the Army and its types of conferences.
I think to send him a party represents the energy of that type of conferences.
And the other witnesses will do nothing more than add a great deal of repetition and to prolong this investigation.
Now, I think Mr. Chairman of the May, I would like to we sometimes for a personal purpose.
I then had assumed that my position in this President's Honourable State was well known.
Much reference is the mage to a letter that I wrote to Secretary of Defense Charles Wilkins asking certain questions.
Now, in order to put this in the top of the spectrum, I would like to restate the my own position in this case and the fact as it related to my love.
I think as well on this too it has been testified to that certain newspaper farmers had received and printed portions of the
Army documents many weeks prior to my life.
It was more or less an open secret that the Army had prepared this document known as the Expand Lab for Order of Defense.
It was also a long understanding and I believe it's been testified to that certain members of Congress had requested this document.
It's also my understanding that in a press conference some official with the Department of Defense had been asked by certain members of the press as the President.
This document will be made available to the members of Congress who had requested this document.
My understanding that this official said that they would be made available.
This is fire from my letter to Secretary of Defense.
I thought it incumbent upon the members of this committee and certainly the majority members of this committee will have to assume their responsibility as majority members.
I thought it incumbent upon us to certainly have that report or fund large afford of defense.
I think it's required to remember the House or some other members of Congress receiving it and the Congress on the floor by some speech or some news conference.
Therefore I request this report and I receive a big I received report 24 for any other member of Congress.
The report was seen by four people myself, the McCarthy, the Demont and the Dirt and no one else.
In my understanding that the report was due to be as been dought of the statements that have been made in the press conference to the other members of the Congress not on this committee or not on the majority front.
The purpose of my letter was to keep from having a speciality we have enough.
I hope that it can be done with this controversy but then resolve.
The committee or the Army make proper actions to remove the people in respect of them that might be killed in this conduct.
I never think that we have praise of special authority.
I assume that this matter that could be handled quickly and over all.
I did not hold a trigger for this here.
I was told I'm triggered if people have it.
I hear it because it will happen now.
I want that made definitely on this.
And I'm second part of some efforts on a part of some 250 files who's married to Mr. and Mrs. Wong, Grilling Wong.
We endeavor to place it on me.
The burden of starting this here is my efforts was directed to the Congress.
This is where we can have the statements back quickly, possibly by calling Mr. Rallings and Mr. Cohn and have it all the way.
I regret I've taken so long but I wanted my legislation to be screened this way.
I'm sure I've ruled for the purposes of illumination.
I remember the council and the committee may speak without the rules of order, prevailing for the time being.
I think send ejection is indicated that you like to just remember.
ABC Radio is bringing you on the scene coverage of McCarthy Army hearings.
This is ABC Radio Network.